---
title: On mechanical keyboards and consumerism
layout: single
date: 2025-06-23
tags:
    - consumerism
---

As part of my "learning more about the world and robotics" era, I went on a shopping spree trying to redefine myself.

It started after our first CCBR east coast meeting. Ryan had brought his mechanical keyboard to CAD with, and my admiration for his 160wpm and general intelligence led me to latch onto the idea that my productivity would 10x if I just bought the right peripherals.

So after 4 hours of reddit research and listening to keyboard ASMR videos, I convinced my mom to buy me the rainy75 mechanical keyboard.

- I was sold by the "it sounds like raindrops" claim, which mixes both my audiophile nature and my dripping melancholy.

It didn't stop there though, and I spent the next two weeks spending 2-3hrs/day scrolling through AliExpress, Drop, KBDfans, (...) searching for the perfect keycaps and switches to express my personality.

For keycaps, I eventually settled on this set of Evangelion caps.

- I was in my "I like tastefully bold colors" era
- it was a cool design that hearkened back to my adolescent love for anime
- and the themes of depression and loneliness in Evangelion resonated with me on a surface level (I never actually finished the show)

It ended in tandem with this set of Gateron tactile switches, which allegedly retained the thocky sound of linear switches while having the satisfying bottom out of tactiles.

Justifying it as a "productivity investment" and a promise to stop doomscrolling AliExpress, I bit the bullet and dropped $280 on these two sets of plastic.

