---
title: The MakeCU retrospective
layout: single
date: 2025-11-12
tags:
    - ganglab
    - research
    - retrospective
    - cs
---
## makecu retrospective
makecu planning started in june, shortly after i got back from ICRA

it was me and a squad of ~8 other people meeting over zoom every week to talk about what work we've done, or have to get done, and by when
- me, andromeda, and saloni met in the broadway lounge and yapped

compared to research meetings
- a lesson i learned early on was the art of ending meetings - with intonation down.
- in research meetings i'm always answering to my PI, but here everyone answered to me.

i always planned the meeting agendas ahead of time, a rough itinerary of what needs to get done and what tasks need checking up on. i became pretty fast about writing, the agendas became a place to braindump everything i thought could be important.

problems i ran into
- if i don't assign work, it doesn't get done and people rarely volunteer themselves
- people turn their zoom cameras off and it becomes impersonal really quickly
- people don't care or feel like they're not contributing to the planning meetings
- people don't take agency and start waiting for me to "assign tasks" to them

i wanted to gravitate away from me lecturing people the entire time, and steer the conversation toward being more productive and collaborative. 

i also wanted people to feel like they could laugh and as if we were all friends working together on something we cared about.

-- hackcon --
i attended hackcon in the fall, where i learned that at other schools, organizing hackathons is a whole affair. people are getting 150k+ in sponsorships, 10k applicants, crafting personality quizzes out of their application forms, hiding CTFs in their websites. one organizing team had an "engineering subteam" of 15 people, all dedicated to data analytics, website development, etc.

i also grew more invested in the hackathon as a concept - of being the glue between your engineering undergraduate degree and industry. and i found MLH's role in the whole operation fascinating, as an umbrella organization connecting sponsors to hackathons and skimming part of the fat off the top. they were an organization of community builders, each invested in organizing hackathons. it was a space i never foresaw myself in; and it was lowkey love-and-kindness-pilled in a way that i didn't vibe with. still, it was interesting.

-- locking in --
i came back and shared the spoils of knowledge with everyone else.

- planning, responsibility, delegation
- functionalizing people
- starting in the summer - ICRA as networking, dragging isaac into things

we started talking to more sponsors, good and bad
- one through a club member's summer internship
- another through the people we talked to at ICRA
- another through a cold email asking for collaboration opportunities
- another, RAI, through recurring relationships
- another, which brought their mini humanoid to demo for us over the summer all the way from delaware!
- one who we were referred to by a friend but completely ghosted us midway through
- another, through a cold message through the business school

managing all of them took a lot of mindspace and effort. i tried to offload a lot of work onto matt, by making it "his responsibility" as "sponsorship chair" lmfao. still, i ended up doing 70% of the work talking to these people.

hardware ordering - due to my lack of expertise, i latched onto a couple folks who i knew did - james and isaac. what they had in hardware expertise i had in hackathon vision, and we met up over a few lunches to plot out what the hardware list should be and how to effectively distribute it.

we were connected to a merch chair at the last second, a bright girl with a pilot's license in the marketing school.

the event inched closer and closer. i went on a spontaneous trip to boston the week before the hackathon - fall break. i ignored my inbox and slack dm's the entire time. i was exhausted.

now the week before - final calls with sponsors, making sure t-shirts and final hardware orders get there on time, talking with catering vendors to make sure things get done, making and printing certificates, nametags, stickers. we were forced to buy prizes from the columbia bookstore - frustratedly brushing up against the convoluted administrative machinery in place to ward off club money laundering. RIP the rainy75 mechanical keyboard i was gonna give the first place winners.

the night before, me and 3 other people stayed from 6pm - 2am getting every small task ready for the hackathon. opening / closing ceremony slides. judging form. emails to hackers. check-in forms.

day of
- greeting sponsors, guiding everyone
- leading the opening and closing ceremonies
- corralling both hackers and organizers to do things
	- had the 7 foot CBS guy yell at people to go places 😂
- distributing hardware went way smoother than it had any reason to go, largely thanks to saloni and isaac's hard preparation on the hardware shop website beforehand
- during downtime, was able to chit chat with sponsors and other members - always tinged with stress but not too bad
- one of the sponsors, josh from botblox, declined our food in favor of his own plain chicken breast which he bought from a nearby shop. mentally noting this, i bought him one of my favorite protein bar flavors later, and we bonded over how good it was (barebells chocolate dough!)
- wrote sponsor + judge thank you cards the day of - joseph also left early to buy chocolates for them.

after the closing ceremony ended and the final sponsor left, i felt like i could finally relax
we stayed back to cleanup the hardware, and the remaining stragglers all went for dinner at sala thai. matt had been up all night manning the makerspace for free, but he still drove us down. we had a beautiful victory meal. and i got home and slept.

the next day i was still frazzled — my brain was in nonstop problem-solving mode for the past 48 hours. for reference, it felt like taking two 14 hr exams in 2 back-to-back days. as a result, i was practically nonverbal for half of the following day. 

i still haven't mentally recovered, but i started feeling genuinely proud of myself a couple days after.

how will makecu fit into the rest of my life?
for one, it viscerally taught me about leadership, and the ways in which working with other people can break down. still, the combined effort of us 10 led to an event which touched 100+ attendees and left a rippling impact on the columbia community. it was challenging, grueling, rewarding. 