---
title: Thoughts, and the lack thereof
layout: single
date: 2025-11-02
tags:
    - ganglab
    - research
    - retrospective
    - cs
---
### the setup
after overworking myself sophomore and junior year, this semester I tried finally listening to my friends' advice and cut down on my time commitments. taking easier classes and cutting down on projects, my responsibilities for the semester became

- columbia robotics club
	- the club
	- makecu
	- ccbr project
- research
	- ganglab - binding library
	- dennis - tunebuddy
	- phd applications
- violin
	- columbia university orchestra
	- columbia music performance program
	- barrio tango orchestra
- coursework
	- (nothing hard)

### the problem
...which didn't end up being a lighter workload at all. 

the problem was x-fold
1. mode-switching between research projects is hard enough - to remember everything in a codebase takes at least 30m of warm-up, 15m if well documented
2. whenever i have a violin lesson, or a chamber coaching, or an orchestra rehearsal, it always derails the entire day - listening to music, practicing violin, thinking about what i did right and wrong, getting music stuck in my head
3. coursework is a nagging pain in the back of my head, to submit assignments and essays on time
4. leading the robotics club means i have to always be on call - to members on my team, sponsors, columbia administration, ...
	1. makecu requires constant attention, and is time-sensitive
	2. i have to acquire funding for ccbr, leading meetings, being on-call to talk
5. decision-making is a highly self-guided process for both research and robotics—leading to decision fatigue. 

fragmented across so many responsibilities, i feel really overwhelmed.

i think back to a book i read called "the burnout society" by byung-chul han. there is a line, where he describes the modern problem
- what used to be "you should" is now "you can". we become "entrepreneurs of ourselves", overworking ourselves into self-enforced subjugation
- "In this society of compulsion, everyone carries a work camp inside... One exploits onself." (p. 19)
- yet, we are "equipped with an ego just short of bursting..." if we didn't, "one would at least have the serenity of an animal." (p. 18)

This neurotic desire to achieve, to make a name for oneself, of being so overworked and stripped of thought that one becomes effectively a mechanistic animal without the serenity of one — I think back to this quote a lot, and how accurately it describes me.

in my music humanities course, we were learning about modern music - and i thought back to philip glass and his repetitive, hypertonal works. and i made a playlist called "hold me", trying to comfort myself with his music. i just wanted someone to tell me what to do, to be held by my mom again, and have her whisper the cheatcodes to figuring out my life.

### the solution?
i was sick with the flu, and decided to download balatro on a whim. i ended up playing balatro for 12 hours straight that day.

it was refreshing, challenging, and addicting. learning about the different joker abilities, various poker hand odds, money management - it was a whole new world to explore. most importantly, it was wholly detached from the existential threat of phd applications, research deadlines, and makecu. in this world, lie round after round of bite-sized problems i could realistically solve. and the delivery of dopamine when i answered correctly.

but it was a fake world, with fake problems. i was distracting myself from my deadlines, from reaching out to makecu sponsors, from finishing my research projects, hell from even asking my professors for letters of recommendation. moreover, it was eating into my already overly limited time.

### the real solution
of course, the real solution is to face my problems head on. and to this end, i have two time horizons to segment the solution methodologies by:

(1) in the short term, i should...
- improve my time management skills
	- blocking out time
	- setting realistic time estimates and mini-deadlines to incentivize progress
- and construct an environment which is conducive to working. 
	- setting routines to initiate deep work and reducing the activation energy to starting
	- removing deleterious apps (like instagram...)
	- asking friends to hold me accountable to the mini-deadlines i set

(2) in the long term, the solution is simple
- limit the amount of projects i take on at once. set realistic weekly time commitment estimates (including commitments to personal + social time) and stick to them

unfortunately, these solutions are much easier said than done. (for instance, shortly after recovering from the flu, i distracted myself further by going on a trip to boston for a weekend.)

i want to get better at keeping the promises i make to myself and others. which means fulfilling my responsibilities to my research PI's, to my orchestra members, to my friends, and to my family for paying my college tuition. so hopefully i figure this time management thing out pretty soon.